# AAS-Creator
Application for generating asset administration shells, based on a deviceprofile.

The AAS Creator application is a browser-based application for the simple creation of Industrie 4.0 administration shells based on the TGA device profile. This application is based on the I4.0 environment BaSyx and was realised with the official BaSyx libraries developed and managed by the Fraunhofer Institute. The BaSyx libraries ensure that the generated administration shells can be used in an I4.0-compliant environment (consisting of AASX Package Explorer and BaSyx Docker Components, among others). The simplified and broad applicability of the application is made possible by container virtualisation (similar to a virtual machine). The open source project Docker provides suitable virtualisation software for this and solves the problem of the different operating systems that frequently occur in practice by means of a virtual operating system using container virtualisation.

The Docker environment was chosen to ensure system independence from the user-based PC and to be able to fix a development status of the application. Different software versions (Windows versions, Linux etc.) of the user PC do not need to be taken into account with the Docker application. To create a system-independent application, three files are required in the Docker environment: the dockerfile, dockerimage and dockercontainer. The dockerfile describes the structure and content of the dockerimage and can be understood as a recipe for creating the dockerimage. A dockerimage is a write-protected file (based on the dockerfile) that can fix a programme status and be executed on different runtime environments. It contains all the elements needed to create any number of docker containers. Docker containers are active running instances of a docker image and provide an application on the local system. The docker image is used to generate the docker container that contains the application for creating administration shells. When the docker image is executed, a corresponding docker container is instantiated, which contains the desired application and ultimately makes it available on the local operating system. The dockerfile is available for download from the github and dockerhub repositories to be integrated directly into the Docker Desktop application. 

The process described was used as the basis for the development of a practical application. The docker image is fully developed and contains the TGA device profile as well as the code required for the application to generate the browser-based creation of Industry 4.0 administration shell types. In addition, the TGA device profile is available as an independent xml file on the GitHub channel Deviceprofile of the Laboratory for Building Automation and Control Engineering at the TH Köln. The Docker Desktop software must be installed on the user's PC in order to generate the application locally. In DockerDesktop, the engine must be running. The command "docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name AASCreator gartlabor/namuraasbuilder:0.3" must now be entered in the cmd prompt of the PC and the docker image will be installed automatically. As there is no dockerimage on the PC, a download and subsequent installation is carried out (approx. 1 min). By entering the name (AAS-Creator), a corresponding docker container is created. By calling up the address https://localhost:8080 in any Internet browser, the application for creating administration shells is started and can be operated.

The landing page of the application is clearly structured and shows the essential elements: Input fields for the available assets, the number of AAS to be generated and the corresponding suffix. All three fields must be completed. The available assets can be selected from a drop-down menu. When the application is executed (by pressing the blue "Generate AAS" button), the desired assets are generated and saved in the local download directory. A file in json format is generated, which can be integrated directly into software for administration shells (e.g. AASX Package Explorer). As the files provided are asset types, they must be instantiated using project and product-specific information. When the assets are created by the application, the asset administration shells of type "Template" are set to Instance and an asset ID based on the entered suffix is entered. The application was tested with the AASX Package Explorer in version v2023-17-11.

In addition to the application for creating asset types, the device profile can also be searched using the application. From the start page, the Browse Deviceprofile page link takes you to the next page. Here, the respective assets can be selected and their contents displayed, such as submodels including their properties. In addition to the properties, the submodel elements also include the File type, which contains asset-specific documents. The AAS types provided contain a link via a permanent link to the Github repository of the GA laboratory at TH Köln for the file attachments, e.g. MTP files and simulation files, and can be downloaded there when the asset types are created. The respective files are therefore also available as individual files and can be used freely and outside of an administration shell environment.
